
What is clound computing?

Simply put, cloud computing is the delivery of computing services—including servers, storage, databases, 
networking, software, analytics, and intelligence—over the Internet (“the cloud”) to offer faster innovation, 
flexible resources, and economies of scale.


Identify the various building blocks of Cloud Computing?
The three are Software as a Service (SaaS), Platform as a Service (PaaS), and Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS).

A -> application 
D -> data
M -> Middleware
R -> Runtime

Os -> O/S

V -> Virtualization
S -> Servers
S -> Storage
N -> Networking


Iaas: Manages and provides the VSSN
e.g Azure, AWS

Question is why should we bother about building the VSSN part as it is same for all the other application
Just build your own ADMR which makes u diff from other competitor


Paas: manages MR O VSSN and we need to only configure AD
e.g Google App Engine, Force.com, Joyent, Azure.


IaaS: Here the entire stack is managed by service provider
e.g gmail



AWS -> Iaas, PaaS
gmail -> SaaS
SF.com -> Paas, SaaS

<--------------------------------->
IaaS		PaaS		SaaS

-------Best value for money----->

Now u need to figure out on which part your application sits in.
More we go towards SaaS we get more value for money as we get the total application as a service 
all the stuffs like scalability, error handling, maintenance is done by service provider


5 Essential Characteristics of Cloud Computing:

On-demand self-service
Broad network access
Resource pooling
Rapid elasticity
Measured service

On demand self service:
Instead of any person working in data center and configuring services and gets thing done as client needs
Here we have a automatic process which takes care of all this service allocation and needs
sometimes the cloud also tells the process that it is running out of resources and the auto process provides it
with some resources
Here the key is automation


Broad network access:
The cloud characteristic of Broad Network Access means that the service can be accessed from multiple 
locations (such as from a corporate office or from home) using multiple different types of client 
(such as a Windows PC or an Android mobile).

Resource pooling:
So we have various organizations and they need resources in our cloud storage.
So process by which the cloud providers allocates resources in the storage for various org is called resource pooling
The next resource we will look at that we can pool is the storage.

Rapid elasticity:
Rapid elasticity is a cloud computing term for scalable provisioning, or the ability to provide scalable services. 
Experts point to this kind of scalable model as one of five fundamental aspects of cloud computing.

Measured service:
Measured service is a term that IT professionals apply to cloud computing. This is a reference to services 
where the cloud provider measures or monitors the provision of services for various reasons, including billing, 
effective use of resources, or overall predictive planning.


Different types of cloud computing deployment models are:

Public cloud 
Private cloud
Hybrid cloud
Community cloud
Multi-cloud 


1. Public Cloud 

The public cloud makes it possible for anybody to access systems and services. The public cloud may be less secure 
as it is open for everyone. The public cloud is one in which cloud infrastructure services are provided over the 
internet to the general people or major industry groups.

2. Private Cloud 

The private cloud deployment model is the exact opposite of the public cloud deployment model. It’s a 
one-on-one environment for a single user (customer). There is no need to share your hardware with anyone else.

3.  Hybrid cloud 

By bridging the public and private worlds with a layer of proprietary software, hybrid cloud computing gives 
the best of both worlds. With a hybrid solution, you may host the app in a safe environment while taking advantage 
of the public cloud’s cost savings.

4. Community cloud

It allows systems and services to be accessible by a group of organizations. It is a distributed system that is 
created by integrating the services of different clouds to address the specific needs of a community, industry, or business.


Here is a list of my top 10 cloud service providers: 
Amazon Web Services (AWS)
Microsoft Azure
Google Cloud
Alibaba Cloud
IBM Cloud
Oracle
Salesforce
SAP
Rackspace Cloud
VMWare



Advantages of cloud computing:
1) Back-up and restore data
2) Improved collaboration
3) Excellent accessibility
4) Low maintenance cost
5) Mobility
6) IServices in the pay-per-use model
7) Unlimited storage capacity
8) Data security

Disadvantages of Cloud Computing
1) Internet Connectivity
2) Vendor lock-in : Organizations may face problems when transferring their services from one vendor to another.
3) Limited Control
4) Security



Cloud Computing Architecture
Cloud Computing Architecture is divided into two parts, i.e., front-end and back-end. 
Front-end and back-end communicate via a network or internet. 

Front-End 
It provides applications and the interfaces that are required for the cloud-based service.
It consists of client’s side applications, which are web browsers such as Google Chrome and Internet Explorer.
Cloud infrastructure is the only component of the front-end.
Cloud infrastructure consists of hardware and software components such as data storage, server, virtualization software, etc.
It also provides a Graphical User Interface to the end-users to perform respective tasks.


Back-End 
It is responsible for monitoring all the programs that run the application on the front-end
It has a large number of data storage systems and servers

Parts of backend:---------------------
Application 
It can either be a software or a platform 
Depending upon the client requirement, the application provides the result to the end-user (with resources) in the back end

Service 
Service is an essential component in cloud architecture
Its responsibility is to provide utility in the architecture

Storage
It stores and maintains data like files, videos, documents, etc. over the internet
Some of the popular examples of storage services are below:
Amazon S3
Oracle Cloud-Storage 
Microsoft Azure Storage

Management
Its task is to allot specific resources to a specific task, it simultaneously performs various functions of the cloud environment
It helps in the management of components like application, task, service, security, data storage, and cloud infrastructure
In simple terms, it establishes coordination among the cloud resources

Security
Security is an integral part of back-end cloud infrastructure
It provides secure cloud resources, systems, files, and infrastructure to end-users

















